---
title: "Spielman"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Social Vulnerability
  - GIS
---

For our third assignment in Open GIScience, as a class, we worked on reproducing [“Evaluating social vulnerability indicators: criteria and their application to the Social Vulnerability Index” Spielman et. al.(2020)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11069-019-03820-z). The Social Vulnerability Index (SoVI) was constructed by Cutter et al. using an additive model and county-level socioeconomic and demographic data. The resulting summary score, SoVI score, has been used extensively to measure the social vulnerability of U.S counties to natural hazards. SoVI is valuable for measuring social vulnerability because it illustrates the spatial variation of vulnerability and uneven landscapes of preparedness. SoVI is used by policymakers to allocate resources making its efficiency as a model critical for livelihood recovery from disasters. In their study, Spielman et al found shortcomings in SoVI’s theoretical and internal consistency. By inputting data on varying geographic extents, SoVI yielded inconsistent results on the state level. The conclusion is that the SoVI model is sensitive to geographic extent because the results are changing. As a class, we attempted to reanalyze this study by weighting the SoVI components by the percentage of variance that they explain to try to fix this sensitivity. 

Here are the [results]((https://azalecki.github.io/RPl-Spielman-2020/) of our reanalysis and the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/azalecki/RPl-Spielman-2020/).

References 

Spielman, S. E., Tuccillo, J., Folch, D. C., Schweikert, A., Davies, R., Wood, N., & Tate, E. (2020). Evaluating social vulnerability indicators: criteria and their application to the Social Vulnerability Index. Natural Hazards, 100(1), 417–436. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11069-019-03820-z

Cutter, S. L., Boruff, B. J., & Shirley, W. L. (2003). Social vulnerability to environmental hazards. Social Science Quarterly, 84(2), 242–261. https://doi.org/10.1111/1540-6237.8402002
